# GitHubWebhooks
Laravel Package that listens to GitHub webhook events and responds by creating Statuses in GitHub

## Laravel 5.6
Tag 1.0+ is intended for use with Laravel 5.6

```bash
composer require mecodeninja/githubwebhooks:^1.0
```

##Installation
Install Package via Composer
```bash
composer require mecodeninja/githubwebhooks:^1.0
```

Publish the Package Config
```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --provider="MeCodeNinja\GitHubWebhooks\GitHubWebhooksServiceProvider"
```

Configure the Checks to be performed on your repository by editing `%storage%/app/githubwebhooks-config.yaml`
```bash
nano storage/app/githubwebhooks-config.yaml
```

Set `name` to your github repository
```yaml
repositories:
  -
    name: willwright/githubwebhooks
    token: %mytoken%
    checks:
      BranchCheck:
        branches: [origin/develop]
      PathCheck:
        paths: [/^vendor\//]
```
The `name` of the repository must match the `repo.full_name` in the payload sent by the GitHub Webhook in order to activate the Check(s). 

Set `token` to a Personal access token which was generated by you in GitHub. See: https://help.github.com/en/articles/creating-a-personal-access-token-for-the-command-line
Token needs:
repo (If your Repository is Private)
repo > public_repo (If your Repository is Public)

>**Warning**
>
>Do **not** commit `githubwebhooks-config.yaml` to your SVN.  It contains sensative information

##Repositories
As many repositories can be added for 

##Check Types
Checks are the Class that actually do work.  Each **must** extend `\MeCodeNinja\GitHubWebhooks\Checks\CheckAbstract`.
Checks are made available for use to the Factory via `config/githubwebhooks.php`.

This package comes with:
* \MeCodeNinja\GitHubWebhooks\Checks\BranchCheck
* \MeCodeNinja\GitHubWebhooks\Checks\PathCheck

The Key used in the repository configuration can be found from `config/githubwebhooks.php`.  They are:
* BranchCheck
* PathCheck

###BranchCheck
Branch request is designed to ensure that feature branch has not been forked from a particular branch and has not had a
particular branch merged into it.

Many teams follow the Git Branching strtegy in which all feature branches must be forked from master and if develop were
to be merged in this would spoil the branch from being merged back into master.

Branch check takes an array of strings.  The Pull Request branch will be checked to verify it has not been forked from
the branch in question.  The Pull Request branch will be checked to make sure that it has not had the branch in question
merged into it.

Note that due to Git's commit and branchng internal architecture determining whether a branch has had another branch
 merged into it or not is not an exact science and this check is prone to false positives.
 
 _Example_
 ```yaml
      BranchCheck:
        branches: [origin/develop]

```
The example will result in the Pull Request branch being checked for `orign/develop`

###PathCheck
PathCheck is designed to ensure that a specific path has not been modified in a feature branch.

Many modern applciations are built from frameworks or groups of modules.  Best practice is to extend the libraries
 to create a unique functionality not to modify the libraries themselves.
  
Path check takes an array of regular expression patterns.  It will check the collection of changed files in the Pull Request for a match.
If a match it found then the check will report a failure. 

Example
```yaml
      PathCheck:
        paths: [/^vendor\//]');

```

The example will check the collection of changed paths in the Pull Request for `/vendor`.  If found the check will report a failure.

##Extending
The developer may have their own checks that they want to perform.  In order to create a new type of check the developer should

1. Create a new Check Class which extends `\MeCodeNinja\GitHubWebhooks\Checks\CheckAbstract`
2. Implement the methods  